This piece was written for a competition and the challenge was to write a story where the first letter in each sentence is in alphabetical order. Well, I tried.

TW: gore

As legend would have it, the Pied Piper hath walked one hundred and thirty children out of Hamelin to spite the town that had wronged him. But, the truth is oft interred with the sorrow that it brings. Cynics might dismiss that which is too ugly, but the truth remains faithful and must be told unsullied.

Doom had descended on Hamelin when rats multiplied unbridled and every house echoed with wails of little children in pain. Embattled by a plague gone savage, the townsfolk and their obese mayor scratched heads and chins alike over the peculiar contagion that took first, their child’s sanity and then the child itself. Feral spirits possessed the children who, once mild and sweet, now saw apparitions in daylight and writhed and convulsed with a passion as though possessed by the eleven fingered witch from the mountains beyond.

Good omens at last, thought the villagers when the Pied Piper offered to charm the rats into a fever that would drive them to tear each other apart. However, neither did Cacofonix, the wise poet, nor did Valentino, the village witch doctor, suspect that the children, now feral, would dance to the same tune as the rodents. Intoxicated by the potent music of the gypsy, the children ran out of their abodes, come twilight, and coalesced into a vicious mob. Jaws and teeth dug into tender flesh and nails were deployed with a vengeance. Knuckles cracked and blood spilt over the cobblestones before the townsfolk could intervene.

Limping Luke alone remained standing amidst the stench of death. Moving laboriously with one bad leg, he couldn’t join the bloodbath in time. Nicked of what he believed would have been a glorious end to the otherwise miserable life of a limping orphan in a cruel village, he wailed and slumped down amidst the pools of blood. Obscuring his sanity, the disease combined with the musical intoxication, had him believe that he was destined to have found deliverance in the carnage. Parted thus, from destiny, the limping orphan was now gripped by a madness to unite with the only reality he would henceforth know: the spirits of his dead brethren.

Quietude settled in the townsquare and the townsfolk watched on as Luke limped to the centre of the pile of corpses – one hundred and thirty lifeless heads and one hundred and thirty lifeless limbs – and began whistling the same woeful tune the Piper had played not many moments ago. Rising from the bowels of the earth, the sorrowful strains in his voice waxed and waned and lured in a lone swallow that perched on his shoulder to join him in his song. Slowly, the music undulated and swirled and fused with the whistle of wind, molding into a sinister melody that serenaded the spirits of his departed brethren. This song by the orphan-swallow duo would henceforth make its appearance in the now abandoned town square at twilight everyday – for the townspeople had moved away from the ill-fated town square after the atrocious sacrilege that they longed to forget.

Unanimous in their agreement, the townsfolk and the town council burnt the Piper at the stake as was the retribution reserved for witches in their day. Valentino, the town’s witch doctor, had sworn that he had seen a eleventh finger under the magnificent folds of the Piper’s piebald coat. 

Whilst the townspeople had moved away, Luke, the orphan, conducted his nightly seance at the erstwhile town square. Xenoglossy eluded him, but shorn of all other purpose in life, he persisted, and his voice, along with a swallow’s, made its daily appearance whistling through stone walls. Yodellers alone remembered Luke, though his own townsfolk had forgotten him, and, oddly enough, even several moons later, his woeful voice sung every night though the boy himself was long dead. 

Zany witch doctors sold not only amulets with swallow feathers but also prophecies about the battalion of Luke’s departed brethren descending to avenge Luke’s suffering and it was agreed upon that no music was ever to play again in the street that was now renamed Bungelosenstrasse or the street without drums – the street that had once run the blood of children and had sung without a singer.