The clock strikes five and as is my wont, I gather up a book and the folds of my skirt and I skip up a wrought iron stairwell, onto a sloping maroon roof. I find myself a mossy stone to sit on and stare up at the expanse of blue and the smudges of creamy clouds before I resume my reading of Jhumpa Lahiri’s ‘Interpreter of Maladies’. It’s yellow with brown spots and that is as should be for a copy out of my dad’s bookshelf that’s more than a decade old.

Cut to the Chase: The Praise

Does it take wizardry or none at all for someone to take stories from your life and recite it back to you at a cheeky cost of 150 rupees in a shabby yellow paperback that claims a Pulitzer? What conman (or woman) will have you believe that the ordinary was never ordinary after all. What time machine will take you back to that one afternoon out of a hundred others where you sat doing what you did on an afternoon and make you feel things you didn’t know you could feel about the smell of onions, about an everyday phone call, about buying cabbage at the grocer’s. What country fair will peddle you magic dished out in frugal vocabulary and prose as mundane as the stories themselves.

Jhumpa Lahiri’s genius is in writing extraordinary stories into the ordinary – the smell of pepper, the unremarkable colour of a wall and the monotony of habit – stories that you and I have lived before but never paused to see. But now you see them, you smell them, you sip them and roll them around on your tongue like you do when you taste fine wine.

She teaches you to smell the yearning for one’s motherland in a curry cooked with store bought fish in Boston, to see the withering of a mellow love in the creases of someone’s lipstick and to hear the madness inside another’s head in a casual dinner table conversation.

Reading Jhumpa Lahiri one is left wondering how it is that a stranger from half way across the globe has carefully preserved moments from your own life – moments you had brushed aside as insipid – and now presents them to you, a neat collage, one short story at a time, at the flimsy cost of 150.