I take my life down, one painting at a time.

It’s funny how small repeated motions are all it takes for your life to become intimately intertwined with a city’s. With every sunset that I watched, every vada pav I ate, every kaali peeli I hailed, I grew more and more assimilated into this living breathing organism called Mumbai.

To ‘move out’ means to pluck away at these heartstrings that are woven into the spacetime of this city. As I see them yank my furniture apart and box away my books and mugs and dresses, I feel my life being pulled apart, broken down and boxed away until it finds a new home.

With my daily scooty rides, I have come to know the curves and scars of the roads from Byculla to Worli and Tardeo. I watched the monsoon chip away at the tar and saw time rebuild it as a lover watches her beloved’s tide ebb and rise.

I’ll miss the big and the small. Such as how the glass buildings seen from my balcony smouldered a golden scarlet during sunset. How I built myself multiple homes through the city at Byculla, Worli, Dadar, and Wadala. How every visiting loved one instantly found themselves at home and falling asleep on my couch. How the city managed to give me both a screaming excitement and a nurturing warmth.

For there is something exicting about a city that can grow only vertically. A city with concrete tentacles reaching up to the sky. Something exciting about a city that sings a symphony of European, Maharashtrian, and Parsi histories alongside a contemporary opulence. Something exciting about a city where corporate whores can find their whorehouses alongside sanctuaries for art and bollywood and hiphop and gastronomical pleasures.

This excitement rises out of bustling colourful storefronts in the sweltering heat, out of pink and yellow matchbox windows at night, and out of amber streets that stay awake at night. It seeps into your windows, into your spacetime, into your bones.

Amidst this bustle, I carved out a warm corner for myself, from where I put my foot out and dipped my toe in this ocean of excitement every now and then. In a city that’s known to keep running and never sleep, I learnt to pause, slow down and watch.

I’ll miss this excitement. This feeling of home. The warmth of the people. And most importantly, I'll miss being able to call this city mine.